I'm on Adobe's Adobe Portfolio and this is free for use for anybody who has Adobe Creative Cloud subscription.
So if you pay your monthly subscription for the adobe cloud you automatically have a place where you
can host a Web site.
You can even purchase a domain name from GoDaddy and bring it into Adobe Portfolio so you can have a
professional U.R.L. or Web site name.
So I've used this for a couple of years I've been pretty impressed with how easy it was to build a portfolio.
This is built for portfolios in mind.
So all of these templates benefit a portfolio driven Web site not necessarily magazines or blogs it
really really benefits showing off photos and work and videos as well.
So they've since added a lot of extra templates.
I'm going to go through each and every one but going to go through the basics of creating a basic Web
site here and we're going to do that right now so we're gonna create a new site already have my portfolio
loaded there we're going to go ahead and create a new site.
So I'm going to go ahead and click on the gallery of work because we really want to show off all of
our stuff.
And this is where it's great to sketch out your layout have a layout plan look at that downloadable
resource to get some ideas of some basic layouts even if you just take a pen and paper and sketch out
what you think is your desired portfolio layout.
Do that ahead of time so when you're finding templates for wordpress or themes for wordpress or you're
using Adobe Portfolio or you're using square space you kind of know which template out of the box is
going to match what kind of layout you desired the quickest.
So we're gonna go ahead and do gallery of work.
And so there's a lot of great fantastic themes you know I've already kind of thought about what I think
would be the best layout for Lillian and her portfolio and her projects and I'm thinking you know we
have three that we want to feature but on our online Web site we had three we featured on the PDA portfolio
but on the online Web site we can add a few more.
I think if we stick to six very simple projects a lot of these layouts will show those all above the
fold.
And so if you don't know what Web site basic terminology is above the fold is when you get onto a Web
site that's what you see on the on the screen and you don't have to scroll.
It's right there in front of your face.
It's above the fold which comes back from the days of newspaper where everything that was below where
the newspaper folded or anything that was above it was more important because that's what the user or
the viewer sees first.
So trying to find a portfolio that I think would work with that I think this one down here Thomas might
work really well if I had if I was a writer or if I had something where copywriting or text was really
important then maybe this Marta might be very good because it really puts maybe a client testimonial
or some kind of headline puts Texas at the forefront instead of photography.
And it depends on kind of what you do if you have high resolution images that need to be bigger on screen
when you show them off and using something like this marina template might work out a little bit better
for you we're gonna go with the Thomas layout we can always changes very easily and it will automatically
make the adjustments for us if we change the templates so it's going to automatically load a lot of
my projects from behind Ask.com because big hands and Adobe Portfolio are connected.
So every time you post a project on big hands it can automatically load on your portfolio on Adobe which
is kind of a neat way to connect both both Web sites both types of portfolios.
So I got to kind of remove the ones that I'm not going to include for Lillian and go ahead and add her
projects in and of course you can change the size of these boxes as well.
You give them rounded edges padding between each box which can kind of be nice so you can add a little
bit of visual separation between each project and you can also change the amount of columns that you
have.
So I'm going to go ahead and adjust this.
And so this is when kind of layout theory comes in handy when it comes to portfolio building so this
would really overwhelm a user coming in because your profile cover photos for different projects are
going to look pretty different.
And so it's going to seem quite disjointed all these projects slammed together.
So if we reduce the amount that were shown to maybe three per bar we could show our six and have nice
big preview files for them to be able to see so they can click on and see the whole project and all
of its detailed glory.
We're going to stick with just three across.
Just do two rows of three projects each.
And of course with this you can change anything we could switch it to our font choice that we have that
we developed in our branding standards for Lillian we can use those same type faces or those same fonts
throughout so that everything matches
of course we can even use those hex codes that we developed in the branding we did the personal branding
for Lillian in the previous section of the course.
You can add those hex codes that we have in our branding standards to be able to pull those out.
So I'm going to take this as an example.
Take our blue grab our hex code here.
This is where it really comes in handy and is pasted in there.
And now we have her blue in there.
So now we need to add kind of a top header.
We need to add a logo in there.
And this is why when we did the personal branding for her we developed a horizontal version for her
logo.
So it would fit really well on a traditional Web site layout not that the big seal that we developed
for her may work really well on certain things but it's not going to work well all the time in those
traditional portfolio Web site layouts so we're going to add that in right now.
And it depends we're going to need to get that plan going so if you sketched out your plan and you decided
you wanted to do a darker background instead you can have had the logo load that end with white.
So it looks really good on a black background or in my case I think I'm going to stick with a stark
white and try to do a very clean contemporary look with my portfolio.
I'm going to stick with a just a black ink on white background
just making sure everything matches up in terms of all the typography or all the font choices so the
links and the of her logo are all the same typeface which has bitten sands and that same type weight.
So they're all bold so each project will need a specific cover and this particular layout.
So we really want to find a photo that really captures each project and so we already did the PDA portfolio
so we already got a lot of our photos gathered together those hero images that we used in the PDA portfolios
for our first page whatever whatever image we use for our first page to introduce that project.
That's probably what you'll end up cropping for your project photos.
This is a perfect square cropping.
If you're a photographer if you have something that needs to be in a different ratio if you're in video
you can always change the ratio of these as well.
You can also add social media icons very easily.
So we're just going to customize up here at the top and just kind of switch these on and add as many
relevant social media channels as possible don't put any social media channel that you haven't built
up yet.
Make sure it has a really nice at least several projects already posted on their clients very well may
check this out.
So you need to make sure you have all your social media that you're posting make sure it's final make
sure there's several really great posts already on the on there it doesn't look like an empty social
media page so we have some kind of basic structure here.
Each one of these right we need to find kind of the right cover photo for each one of our projects and
need to start loading in all those images when you click on a particular project it goes to a landing
page.
And this is kind of what we want to kind of expand on and talk about kind of having a nice title having
a client quote.
This is when we did our PDA portfolios we did a lot of work with that already so this will be really
easy to put together because it's going to be very similar you got already going to have your descriptions
written for your project and already going to have the types of photos you're going to use as well so
we're going to be rebuilding that.
But in the digital format for each one of these landing pages and this is where it's nice to show the
process as I talked about in prior lessons how you're showing the brainstorming process and your guiding
users kind of through a journey walking them through your project in detail.